docs/model_generator.md, before:

# Model Generator

This section describe how to convert `python classes` from an `avro schema` (avsc files). This is the inverse process that the library aims to.

**`Avro schema` --> `Python class`**

In order to create the models, we should use the `ModelGenerator` class. This class will be in charge of render all the python types in a proper way.
The rendered result is a string that contains the proper identation, so the result can be saved in a file and it will be ready to use.

!!! note
    In future releases it will be possible to generate models for other programming langagues like `java` and `rust`

## Usage

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator

model_generator = ModelGenerator()

schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "namespace": "com.kubertenes",
    "name": "AvroDeployment",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "image", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "replicas", "type": "int"},
        {"name": "port", "type": "int"},
    ],
}

result = model_generator.render(schema=schema)

# save the result in a file
with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
    f.write(result)
```

Then, the end result is:

```python
# models.py
import dataclasses

from dataclasses_avroschema import AvroModel
from dataclasses_avroschema import types


@dataclasses.dataclass
class AvroDeployment(AvroModel):
    image: str
    replicas: types.Int32
    port: types.Int32

    class Meta:
        namespace = "com.kubertenes"
```

## Render a Python module

It's also possible to generate a Python module containing classes from multiple schemas using `render_module`.

```py
from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator

model_generator = ModelGenerator()

user_schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "name": "User",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "name", "type": "string", "default": "marcos"},
        {"name": "age", "type": "int"},
    ],
}
address_schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Address",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "street", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "street_number", "type": "long"},
    ],
}

result = model_generator.render_module(schemas=[user_schema, address_schema])

with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
    f.write(result)
```
```py
# models.py
from dataclasses_avroschema import AvroModel
from dataclasses_avroschema import types
import dataclasses


@dataclasses.dataclass
class User(AvroModel):
    age: types.Int32
    name: str = "marcos"


@dataclasses.dataclass
class Address(AvroModel):
    street: str
    street_number: int
```

Generating a single module from multiple schemas is useful for example to group schemas that belong to the same namespace.

## Render Pydantic models

It is also possible to render `BaseModel` (pydantic) and `AvroBaseModel` (avro + pydantic) models as well simply specifying the `base class`.
The end result will also include the necessaty imports and the use of `pydantic.Field` in case that it is needed:

For example:

```python
schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "name": "User",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "name", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "age", "type": "long"},
        {"name": "friend", "type": ["null", "User"], "default": None},
        {"name": "relatives", "type": {"type": "array", "items": "User", "name": "relative"}, "default": []},
        {"name": "teammates", "type": {"type": "map", "values": "User", "name": "teammate"}, "default": {}},
    ],
}
```

and then render the result:

=== "Pydantic models"

    ```python
    from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator, BaseClassEnum

    model_generator = ModelGenerator(base_class=BaseClassEnum.PYDANTIC_MODEL.value)
    result = model_generator.render(schema=schema)

    # save the result in a file
    with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
        f.write(result)

    # models.py
    from pydantic import BaseModel
    from pydantic import Field
    import typing


    class User(BaseModel):
        name: str
        age: int
        friend: typing.Optional[typing.Type["User"]] = None
        relatives: typing.List[typing.Type["User"]] = Field(default_factory=list)
        teammates: typing.Dict[str, typing.Type["User"]] = Field(default_factory=dict)
    ```

=== "Avrodantic models"

    ```python
    from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator, BaseClassEnum

    model_generator = ModelGenerator(base_class=BaseClassEnum.AVRO_DANTIC_MODEL.value)
    result = model_generator.render(schema=schema)

    # save the result in a file
    with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
        f.write(result)

    # models.py
    from dataclasses_avroschema.avrodantic import AvroBaseModel
    from pydantic import Field
    import typing


    class User(AvroBaseModel):
        name: str
        age: int
        friend: typing.Optional[typing.Type["User"]] = None
        relatives: typing.List[typing.Type["User"]] = Field(default_factory=list)
        teammates: typing.Dict[str, typing.Type["User"]] = Field(default_factory=dict)
    ```

!!! note
    Use the `dataclasses_avroschema.BaseClassEnum` to specify the `base class`

!!! note
    Soon with [dc-avro](https://github.com/marcosschroh/dc-avro) will be possible to generate the models from the command line

## Malformed schemas

Some times there are valid avro schemas but we could say that it is "malformed", for example the following schema has a field name called `Address` which is
exactly the same name as the record `Address`.

```python
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "User",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "name",
      "type": "string"
    },
    {
      "name": "age",
      "type": "long"
    },
    {
      "name": "Address",  # The field name is the same as the record name
      "type": [
        "null",
        {
            "type": "record",
            "name": "Address",
            "fields": [
            {
                "name": "name",
                "type": "string"
            }
            ]
        },
      ],
      "default": None,
    }
  ]
}
```

If we try to generate the python models that correspond with the previous schema we end up with the following result:

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema import AvroModel
import dataclasses
import typing


@dataclasses.dataclass
class Address(AvroModel):
    name: str


@dataclasses.dataclass
class User(AvroModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    Address: typing.Optional[Address] = None
```

The result is correct because it translate to python what the schema represents, but if we checked the `annotations` we see that `Address` is `overshadowed`:

```python
print(User.__annotations__)
# >>> {'name': str, 'age': int, 'Address': NoneType}

# We do not want this!!!
print(User.fake())
# >>> User(name='ftXgdDSUzdUIamiiHOiS', age=2422, Address=None)  
```

If we rename the field name `Address` to `address` in the schema:

```python
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "User",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "name",
      "type": "string"
    },
    {
      "name": "age",
      "type": "long"
    },
    {
      "name": "address",  # RENAMED!!!
      "type": [
        "null",
        {
            "type": "record",
            "name": "Address",
            "fields": [
            {
                "name": "name",
                "type": "string"
            }
            ]
        },
      ],
      "default": None,
    }
  ]
}
```

we get a proper result:

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema import AvroModel
import dataclasses
import typing


@dataclasses.dataclass
class Address(AvroModel):
    name: str


@dataclasses.dataclass
class User(AvroModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    address: typing.Optional[Address] = None

print(User.__annotations__)
# >>> {'name': str, 'age': int, 'address': typing.Optional[__main__.Address]}

print(User.fake())
# >>> User(name='JBZdhEWdXwFLQitWCjkc', age=3406, address=Address(name='AhlQsvXnkpcPZJvRSXLr'))
```

## Mapping `avro fields` to `python fields` summary

|Avro Type | Python Type  |
|-----------|-------------|
| string    | str         |
| int       | long        |
| boolean   | bool        |
| float     | double      |
| null      | None        |
| bytes     | bytes       |
| array     | typing.List |
| map       | typing.Dict |
| fixed     | types.Fixed |
| enum      | enum.Enum   |
| int       | types.Int32 |
| float     | types.Float32|
| union     | typing.Union|
| record    | Python class|
| date      | datetime.date|
| time-millis| datetime.time|
| time-micros| types.TimeMicro|
| timestamp-millis| datetime.datetime|
| timestamp-micros| types.DateTimeMicro|
| decimal | decimal.Decimal|
| uuid | uuid.uuid4    |

Commit message:

fix: use pydantic condecimal when generating pydantic models. Closes #234 (#237)
Co-authored-by: Marcos Schroh <marcos.schroh@kpn.com>

docs/model_generator.md, after:

# Model Generator

This section describe how to convert `python classes` from an `avro schema` (avsc files). This is the inverse process that the library aims to.

**`Avro schema` --> `Python class`**

In order to create the models, we should use the `ModelGenerator` class. This class will be in charge of render all the python types in a proper way.
The rendered result is a string that contains the proper identation, so the result can be saved in a file and it will be ready to use.

!!! note
    In future releases it will be possible to generate models for other programming langagues like `java` and `rust`

!!! note
    Soon with [dc-avro](https://github.com/marcosschroh/dc-avro) will be possible to generate the models from the command line

## Usage

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator

model_generator = ModelGenerator()

schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "namespace": "com.kubertenes",
    "name": "AvroDeployment",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "image", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "replicas", "type": "int"},
        {"name": "port", "type": "int"},
    ],
}

result = model_generator.render(schema=schema)

# save the result in a file
with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
    f.write(result)
```

Then, the end result is:

```python
# models.py
import dataclasses

from dataclasses_avroschema import AvroModel
from dataclasses_avroschema import types


@dataclasses.dataclass
class AvroDeployment(AvroModel):
    image: str
    replicas: types.Int32
    port: types.Int32

    class Meta:
        namespace = "com.kubertenes"
```

## Render a Python module

It's also possible to generate a Python module containing classes from multiple schemas using `render_module`.

```py
from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator

model_generator = ModelGenerator()

user_schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "name": "User",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "name", "type": "string", "default": "marcos"},
        {"name": "age", "type": "int"},
    ],
}
address_schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Address",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "street", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "street_number", "type": "long"},
    ],
}

result = model_generator.render_module(schemas=[user_schema, address_schema])

with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
    f.write(result)
```

Then, the end result is:

```py
# models.py
from dataclasses_avroschema import AvroModel
from dataclasses_avroschema import types
import dataclasses


@dataclasses.dataclass
class User(AvroModel):
    age: types.Int32
    name: str = "marcos"


@dataclasses.dataclass
class Address(AvroModel):
    street: str
    street_number: int
```

Generating a single module from multiple schemas is useful for example to group schemas that belong to the same namespace.

## Render Pydantic models

It is also possible to render `BaseModel` (pydantic) and `AvroBaseModel` (avro + pydantic) models as well simply specifying the `base class`.
The end result will also include the necessaty imports and the use of `pydantic.Field` in case that it is needed:

For example:

```python
schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "name": "User",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "name", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "age", "type": "long"},
        {"name": "friend", "type": ["null", "User"], "default": None},
        {"name": "relatives", "type": {"type": "array", "items": "User", "name": "relative"}, "default": []},
        {"name": "teammates", "type": {"type": "map", "values": "User", "name": "teammate"}, "default": {}},
        {"name": "money", "type": {"type": "bytes", "logicalType": "decimal", "precision": 10, "scale": 3}},
    ],
}
```

and then render the result:

=== "Pydantic models"

    ```python
    from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator, BaseClassEnum

    model_generator = ModelGenerator(base_class=BaseClassEnum.PYDANTIC_MODEL.value)
    result = model_generator.render(schema=schema)

    # save the result in a file
    with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
        f.write(result)

    # models.py
    from pydantic import BaseModel
    from pydantic import Field
    from pydantic import condecimal
    import decimal
    import typing


    class User(BaseModel):
        name: str
        age: int
        money: decimal.Decimal = condecimal(max_digits=10, decimal_places=3)
        friend: typing.Optional[typing.Type["User"]] = None
        relatives: typing.List[typing.Type["User"]] = Field(default_factory=list)
        teammates: typing.Dict[str, typing.Type["User"]] = Field(default_factory=dict)
    ```

=== "Avrodantic models"

    ```python
    from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator, BaseClassEnum

    model_generator = ModelGenerator(base_class=BaseClassEnum.AVRO_DANTIC_MODEL.value)
    result = model_generator.render(schema=schema)

    # save the result in a file
    with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
        f.write(result)

    # models.py
    from dataclasses_avroschema.avrodantic import AvroBaseModel
    from pydantic import Field
    from pydantic import condecimal
    import decimal
    import typing


    class User(AvroBaseModel):
        name: str
        age: int
        money: decimal.Decimal = condecimal(max_digits=10, decimal_places=3)
        friend: typing.Optional[typing.Type["User"]] = None
        relatives: typing.List[typing.Type["User"]] = Field(default_factory=list)
        teammates: typing.Dict[str, typing.Type["User"]] = Field(default_factory=dict)
    ```

!!! note
    Use the `dataclasses_avroschema.BaseClassEnum` to specify the `base class`

!!! note
    `decimal.Decimal` are created using `pydantic condecimal`

## Malformed schemas

Some times there are valid avro schemas but we could say that it is "malformed", for example the following schema has a field name called `Address` which is
exactly the same name as the record `Address`.

```python
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "User",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "name",
      "type": "string"
    },
    {
      "name": "age",
      "type": "long"
    },
    {
      "name": "Address",  # The field name is the same as the record name
      "type": [
        "null",
        {
            "type": "record",
            "name": "Address",
            "fields": [
            {
                "name": "name",
                "type": "string"
            }
            ]
        },
      ],
      "default": None,
    }
  ]
}
```

If we try to generate the python models that correspond with the previous schema we end up with the following result:

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema import AvroModel
import dataclasses
import typing


@dataclasses.dataclass
class Address(AvroModel):
    name: str


@dataclasses.dataclass
class User(AvroModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    Address: typing.Optional[Address] = None
```

The result is correct because it translate to python what the schema represents, but if we checked the `annotations` we see that `Address` is `overshadowed`:

```python
print(User.__annotations__)
# >>> {'name': str, 'age': int, 'Address': NoneType}

# We do not want this!!!
print(User.fake())
# >>> User(name='ftXgdDSUzdUIamiiHOiS', age=2422, Address=None)  
```

If we rename the field name `Address` to `address` in the schema:

```python
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "User",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "name",
      "type": "string"
    },
    {
      "name": "age",
      "type": "long"
    },
    {
      "name": "address",  # RENAMED!!!
      "type": [
        "null",
        {
            "type": "record",
            "name": "Address",
            "fields": [
            {
                "name": "name",
                "type": "string"
            }
            ]
        },
      ],
      "default": None,
    }
  ]
}
```

we get a proper result:

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema import AvroModel
import dataclasses
import typing


@dataclasses.dataclass
class Address(AvroModel):
    name: str


@dataclasses.dataclass
class User(AvroModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    address: typing.Optional[Address] = None

print(User.__annotations__)
# >>> {'name': str, 'age': int, 'address': typing.Optional[__main__.Address]}

print(User.fake())
# >>> User(name='JBZdhEWdXwFLQitWCjkc', age=3406, address=Address(name='AhlQsvXnkpcPZJvRSXLr'))
```

## Mapping `avro fields` to `python fields` summary

|Avro Type | Python Type  |
|-----------|-------------|
| string    | str         |
| int       | long        |
| boolean   | bool        |
| float     | double      |
| null      | None        |
| bytes     | bytes       |
| array     | typing.List |
| map       | typing.Dict |
| fixed     | types.Fixed |
| enum      | enum.Enum   |
| int       | types.Int32 |
| float     | types.Float32|
| union     | typing.Union|
| record    | Python class|
| date      | datetime.date|
| time-millis| datetime.time|
| time-micros| types.TimeMicro|
| timestamp-millis| datetime.datetime|
| timestamp-micros| types.DateTimeMicro|
| decimal | decimal.Decimal|
| uuid | uuid.uuid4    |
