docs/pydantic_v1.md, before:

# Pydantic V1 Integration

It is possible to use [pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/) with `dataclasses-avroschema` making use of `AvroBaseModel`:

You must use all the `pydantic` features and all `dataclasses-avroschema` functionality will be injected.

!!! note
    With `pydantic` you do not have to use `python dataclasses`

!!! warning
    The support of `pydantic v1` will be deprecated in the future. We recommend to migrate to `pydantic v2`.

## Avro and Json schemas

```python title="Basic usage"
import typing
import enum
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel

from pydantic.v1 import Field


class FavoriteColor(str, enum.Enum):
    BLUE = "BLUE"
    YELLOW = "YELLOW"
    GREEN = "GREEN"


class UserAdvance(AvroBaseModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    pets: typing.List[str] = Field(default_factory=lambda: ["dog", "cat"])
    accounts: typing.Dict[str, int] = Field(default_factory=lambda: {"key": 1})
    has_car: bool = False
    favorite_colors: FavoriteColor = FavoriteColor.BLUE
    country: str = "Argentina"
    address: str = None

    class Meta:
        schema_doc = False


# Avro schema
UserAdvance.avro_schema()
'{
    "type": "record",
    "name": "UserAdvance",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "name", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "age", "type": "long"},
        {"name": "pets", "type": {"type": "array", "items": "string", "name": "pet"}, "default": ["dog", "cat"]},
        {"name": "accounts", "type": {"type": "map", "values": "long", "name": "account"}, "default": {"key": 1}},
        {"name": "has_car", "type": "boolean", "default": false},
        {"name": "favorite_colors", "type": {"type": "enum", "name": "FavoriteColor", "symbols": ["BLUE", "YELLOW", "GREEN"]}, "default": "BLUE"},
        {"name": "country", "type": "string", "default": "Argentina"},
        {"name": "address", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null}
    ]
}'

# Json schema
UserAdvance.json_schema()

'{
    "title": "UserAdvance",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "name": {"title": "Name", "type": "string"},
        "age": {"title": "Age", "type": "integer"},
        "pets": {"title": "Pets", "type": "array", "items": {"type": "string"}},
        "accounts": {"title": "Accounts", "type": "object", "additionalProperties": {"type": "integer"}},
        "has_car": {"title": "Has Car", "default": false, "type": "boolean"},
        "favorite_colors": {"default": "BLUE", "allOf": [{"$ref": "#/definitions/FavoriteColor"}]},
        "country": {"title": "Country", "default": "Argentina", "type": "string"},
        "address": {"title": "Address", "type": "string"}},
        "required": ["name", "age"], "definitions": {"FavoriteColor": {"title": "FavoriteColor", "description": "An enumeration.", "enum": ["BLUE", "YELLOW", "GREEN"], "type": "string"}}}'
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

!!! note
    You must use pydantic.Field instead of dataclasses.field

## Avro schemas with pydantic types

Most of `pydantic` types are supported and from them it is possible to generate `avro fields`. Because `pydantic` types are not native `python types`
the end result will contain extra metadata so the end users will have more context at the moment of using the schema. The extra `metadata` is specified
using the key `pydantic-class`.

### Supported fields

| Avro Type    | Pydantic Type |
|--------------|-------------|
| string       | pydantic.FilePath |
| string       | pydantic.DirectoryPath |
| string       | pydantic.EmailStr |
| string       | pydantic.NameEmail |
| string       | pydantic.AnyUrl |
| string       | pydantic.AnyHttpUrl |
| string       | pydantic.HttpUrl |
| string       | pydantic.FileUrl |
| string       | pydantic.PostgresDsn |
| string       | pydantic.CockroachDsn |
| string       | pydantic.AmqpDsn |
| string       | pydantic.RedisDsn |
| string       | pydantic.MongoDsn |
| string       | pydantic.KafkaDsn |
| string       | pydantic.SecretStr |
| string       | pydantic.IPvAnyAddress |
| string       | pydantic.IPvAnyInterface |
| string       | pydantic.IPvAnyNetwork |
| double       | pydantic.NegativeFloat |
| double       | pydantic.PositiveFloat |
| long         | pydantic.NegativeInt |
| long         | pydantic.PositiveIntstr |
| long         | pydantic.ConstrainedInt (conint) |

| Avro Type    | Logical type | Pydantic Type |
|--------------|--------------|---------------|
| string       | uuid         | pydantic.UUID1 |
| string       | uuid         | pydantic.UUID3 |
| string       | uuid         | pydantic.UUID4 |
| string       | uuid         | pydantic.UUID5 |

```python
from pydantic import v1 as pydantic
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class Infrastructure(AvroBaseModel):
    email: pydantic.EmailStr
    postgres_dsn: pydantic.PostgresDsn
    cockroach_dsn: pydantic.CockroachDsn
    amqp_dsn: pydantic.AmqpDsn
    redis_dsn: pydantic.RedisDsn
    mongo_dsn: pydantic.MongoDsn
    kafka_url: pydantic.KafkaDsn
    total_nodes: pydantic.PositiveInt


Infrastructure.avro_schema()

{
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Infrastructure",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "email", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "EmailStr"}},
        {"name": "postgres_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "PostgresDsn"}},
        {"name": "cockroach_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "CockroachDsn"}},
        {"name": "amqp_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "AmqpDsn"}},
        {"name": "redis_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "RedisDsn"}},
        {"name": "mongo_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "MongoDsn"}},
        {"name": "kafka_url", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "KafkaDsn"}},
        {"name": "total_nodes", "type": {"type": "long", "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"}}
    ]
}
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

!!! note
    The key `pydantic-class` has been added as `metadata` to have more context when using the schema

## Model generation

If is possible to generate [pydantic models](https://marcosschroh.github.io/dataclasses-avroschema/model_generator/#render-pydantic-models) when `pydantic types` have been used. If a field has the matadata key `pydantic-class`
then the proper pydantic types will be used.

Schema example:

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator, BaseClassEnum

model_generator = ModelGenerator(base_class=BaseClassEnum.AVRO_DANTIC_MODEL.value)

schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Infrastructure",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "email", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "EmailStr"}},
        {"name": "kafka_url", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "KafkaDsn"}},
        {"name": "total_nodes", "type": {"type": "long", "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"}},
        {"name": "event_id", "type": {"type": "string", "logicalType": "uuid", "pydantic-class": "UUID1"}},
        {"name": "landing_zone_nodes", "type": {"type": "array", "items": {"type": "long", "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"}, "name": "landing_zone_node"}},
        {"name": "total_nodes_in_aws", "type": {"type": "long", "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"}, "default": 10},
        {"name": "optional_kafka_url", "type": ["null", {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "KafkaDsn"}], "default": None}
    ]
}

result = model_generator.render(schema=schema)

with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
    f.write(result)
```

and then render the result:

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel
from pydantic import v1 as pydantic
import typing


class Infrastructure(AvroBaseModel):
    email: pydantic.EmailStr
    kafka_url: pydantic.KafkaDsn
    total_nodes: pydantic.PositiveInt
    event_id: pydantic.UUID1
    landing_zone_nodes: typing.List[pydantic.PositiveInt]
    total_nodes_in_aws: pydantic.PositiveInt = 10
    optional_kafka_url: typing.Optional[pydantic.KafkaDsn] = None
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

!!! note
    In order to render the pydantic types the base class must be `AVRO_BASE_MODEL` or `PYDANTIC_MODEL`

### Mapping `avro fields` to `pydantic types`

|Avro Type  | Metadata                           | Pydantic Type  |
|-----------|------------------------------------|----------------|
| string    | "pydantic-class": "DirectoryPath"  | pydantic.FilePath |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "DirectoryPath"  | pydantic.DirectoryPath |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "EmailStr"       | pydantic.EmailStr |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "NameEmail"      | pydantic.NameEmail |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "AnyUrl"         | pydantic.AnyUrl |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "AnyHttpUrl"     | pydantic.AnyHttpUrl |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "HttpUrl"        | pydantic.HttpUrl |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "FileUrl"        | pydantic.FileUrl |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "PostgresDsn"    | pydantic.PostgresDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "CockroachDsn    | pydantic.CockroachDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "AmqpDsn"        | pydantic.AmqpDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "RedisDsn"       | pydantic.RedisDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "MongoDsn"       | pydantic.MongoDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "KafkaDsn"       | pydantic.KafkaDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "SecretStr"      | pydantic.SecretStr |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "IPvAnyAddress"  | pydantic.IPvAnyAddress |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "IPvAnyInterface"| pydantic.IPvAnyInterface |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "IPvAnyNetwork"  | pydantic.IPvAnyNetwork |
| double    | "pydantic-class": "NegativeFloat"  | pydantic.NegativeFloat |
| double    | "pydantic-class": "PositiveFloat"  | pydantic.PositiveFloat |
| long      | "pydantic-class": "NegativeInt"    | pydantic.NegativeInt |
| long      | "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"    | pydantic.PositiveInt |
| long      | "pydantic-class": ConstrainedInt"  | pydantic.ConstrainedInt |

|Avro Type  | Logical Type | Metadata | Pydantic Type                      |
|-----------|--------------|----------|------------------------------------|
| string    |  uuid        | "pydantic-class": "UUID1"    | pydantic.UUID1 |
| string    |  uuid        | "pydantic-class": "UUID3"    | pydantic.UUID3 |
| string    |  uuid        | "pydantic-class": "UUID4"    | pydantic.UUID4 |
| string    |  uuid        | "pydantic-class": "UUID5"    | pydantic.UUID5 |

## Pydantic and dataclasses_avroschema batteries

### To dict, to json and serialization

```python title="getting dict and json"
user = UserAdvance(name="bond", age=50)

# to_json from dataclasses-avroschema is the same that json from pydantic
assert user.to_json() == user.json()

# to_dict from dataclasses-avroschema is the same that dict from pydantic
assert user.to_dict() == user.dict()
```

```python title="serialization"
event = user.serialize()
print(event)
# >>> b'\x08bondd\x04\x06dog\x06cat\x00\x02\x06key\x02\x00\x00\x00\x12Argentina\x00'

UserAdvance.deserialize(data=event)
# >>> UserAdvance(name='bond', age=50, pets=['dog', 'cat'], accounts={'key': 1}, has_car=False, favorite_colors=<FavoriteColor.BLUE: 'BLUE'>, country='Argentina', address=None)
```

### Parsing Objects

```python title="parse_obj usage"
import typing

from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class Address(AvroBaseModel):
    "An Address"
    street: str
    street_number: int


class User(AvroBaseModel):
    "User with multiple Address"
    name: str
    age: int
    addresses: typing.List[Address]

data_user = {
    "name": "john",
    "age": 20,
    "addresses": [{
        "street": "test",
        "street_number": 10,
        }],
    }

user = User.parse_obj(data=data_user)
assert type(user.addresses[0]) is Address
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

```python title="parse_obj_as usage"
from typing import List

from pydantic import parse_obj_as

from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class User(AvroBaseModel):
    "User with multiple Address"
    name: str
    age: int


data = [{"name": "bond", "age": 50}, {"name": "bond2", "age": 60}]
users = parse_obj_as(List[User], data)

users[0].avro_schema()
# '{"type": "record", "name": "User", "fields": [{"name": "name", "type": "string"}, {"name": "age", "type": "long"}], "doc": "User with multiple Address"}'
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

### Fake

It is also possible to create `fake` instances with `pydantic` models:

```python
import typing
import datetime
from pydantic.v1 import Field
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class User(AvroBaseModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    birthday: datetime.date
    pets: typing.List[str] = Field(default_factory=lambda: ["dog", "cat"])
    accounts: typing.Dict[str, int] = Field(default_factory=lambda: {"key": 1})
    has_car: bool = False

print(User.fake())
# >>> User(name='qWTLkqcIVmSBxpWMpFyR', age=2608, birthday=datetime.date(1982, 3, 30), pets=['wqoEXcJRYjcnJmnIvtiI'], accounts={'JueNdHdzIhHIDsjlHJLc': 779}, has_car=True)
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

!!! note
    All pydantic supported fields can be used with fake

### Excluding fields

Pydantic Fields can be excluded when `dict`, `json` or `copy` methods are called. This meaans that the exclusion is only for [exporting models](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/usage/exporting_models/) but not excluded in the instance creations, then the `avro serialization` will include all the class attributes.

```python
import typing
from pydantic.v1 import Field
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class User(AvroBaseModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    pets: typing.List[str] = Field(default_factory=lambda: ["dog", "cat"], exclude=True)
    accounts: typing.Dict[str, int] = Field(default_factory=lambda: {"key": 1}, exclude=True)
    has_car: bool = False

user = User(name="bond", age=50, has_car=True)
print(user)
# >>> User(name='bond', age=50, pets=['dog', 'cat'], accounts={'key': 1}, has_car=True)

print(user.dict())
# >>> {'name': 'bond', 'age': 50, 'has_car': True} Excludes pets and accounts !!!

event = user.serialize()
assert user == User.deserialize(event)
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

## Model Config

With `AvroBaseModel` you can use the same [Model Config](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/usage/model_config/) that `pydantic` provides,
for example:

=== "Not use Enum values"
    ```python
    import enum
    from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic import AvroBaseModel

    class Color(str, enum.Enum):
        BLUE = "BLUE"
        RED = "RED"


    class Bus(AvroBaseModel):
        driver: str
        color: Color

    bus =  Bus(driver="bond", color=Color.RED)
    print(bus.dict())
    # >>> {'driver': 'bond', 'color': <Color.RED: 'RED'>}
    ```

=== "Use Enum values"
    ```python
    import enum
    from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic import AvroBaseModel

    class Color(str, enum.Enum):
        BLUE = "BLUE"
        RED = "RED"


    class Bus(AvroBaseModel):
        driver: str
        color: Color

        class Config:
            use_enum_values = True

    bus =  Bus(driver="bond", color=Color.RED)
    print(bus.dict())
    # >>> {'driver': 'bond', 'color': 'RED'}
    ```

## Adding Custom Field-level Attributes

To add `custom field attributes` the `metadata` attribute must be set in `pydantic.Field`. For more info check [adding-custom-field-level-attributes](https://marcosschroh.github.io/dataclasses-avroschema/fields_specification/#adding-custom-field-level-attributes) section for `dataclasses`.

!!! note
    Make sure that `pydantic.Field` is used and *NOT* `dataclasses.field`

### Custom Data Types as Fields

If needed, you can annotate fields with custom classes that define validators.

### Classes with `__get_validators__`

These classes are [defined by pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/usage/types/#classes-with-__get_validators__) as Python classes that define the `validate` and `__get_validators__` methods.

!!! note
    The conversion mapping of a custom class to its [supported type](./fields_specification.md#avro-field-and-python-types-summary) must be defined in the model's [`json_encoders`](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/usage/exporting_models/#json_encoders) config.

!!! warning
    [Generating models](#Model-generation) from avro schemas that were generated by classes containing Custom Class fields is not supported.

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class CustomClass:
    def __init__(self, value: str) -> None:
        self.value = value

    @classmethod
    def __get_validators__(cls):
        yield cls.validate

    @classmethod
    def validate(cls, value):
        if isinstance(value, CustomClass):
            return value
        elif not isinstance(value, str):
            raise ValueError(f"Value must be a string or CustomClass - not {type(value)}")

        return cls(value)

    def __str__(self) -> str:
        return f"{self.value}"


class MyModel(AvroBaseModel):
    my_id: CustomClass

    class Config:
        json_encoders = {CustomClass: str}


print(MyModel.avro_schema_to_python())
"""
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "MyModel",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "my_id",
      "type": "string"
    }
  ]
}
"""
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

Commit message:

fix: suppor for python3.14 added. Closes #902

docs/pydantic_v1.md, after:

# Pydantic V1 Integration

It is possible to use [pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/) with `dataclasses-avroschema` making use of `AvroBaseModel`:

You must use all the `pydantic` features and all `dataclasses-avroschema` functionality will be injected.

!!! warning
    Pydantic V1 core functionality will not work properly with Python 3.14 or greater. As such, Python 3.13 is the latest supported Python version for V1.

!!! note
    With `pydantic` you do not have to use `python dataclasses`

## Avro and Json schemas

```python title="Basic usage"
import typing
import enum
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel

from pydantic.v1 import Field


class FavoriteColor(str, enum.Enum):
    BLUE = "BLUE"
    YELLOW = "YELLOW"
    GREEN = "GREEN"


class UserAdvance(AvroBaseModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    pets: typing.List[str] = Field(default_factory=lambda: ["dog", "cat"])
    accounts: typing.Dict[str, int] = Field(default_factory=lambda: {"key": 1})
    has_car: bool = False
    favorite_colors: FavoriteColor = FavoriteColor.BLUE
    country: str = "Argentina"
    address: str = None

    class Meta:
        schema_doc = False


# Avro schema
UserAdvance.avro_schema()
'{
    "type": "record",
    "name": "UserAdvance",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "name", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "age", "type": "long"},
        {"name": "pets", "type": {"type": "array", "items": "string", "name": "pet"}, "default": ["dog", "cat"]},
        {"name": "accounts", "type": {"type": "map", "values": "long", "name": "account"}, "default": {"key": 1}},
        {"name": "has_car", "type": "boolean", "default": false},
        {"name": "favorite_colors", "type": {"type": "enum", "name": "FavoriteColor", "symbols": ["BLUE", "YELLOW", "GREEN"]}, "default": "BLUE"},
        {"name": "country", "type": "string", "default": "Argentina"},
        {"name": "address", "type": ["null", "string"], "default": null}
    ]
}'

# Json schema
UserAdvance.json_schema()

'{
    "title": "UserAdvance",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "name": {"title": "Name", "type": "string"},
        "age": {"title": "Age", "type": "integer"},
        "pets": {"title": "Pets", "type": "array", "items": {"type": "string"}},
        "accounts": {"title": "Accounts", "type": "object", "additionalProperties": {"type": "integer"}},
        "has_car": {"title": "Has Car", "default": false, "type": "boolean"},
        "favorite_colors": {"default": "BLUE", "allOf": [{"$ref": "#/definitions/FavoriteColor"}]},
        "country": {"title": "Country", "default": "Argentina", "type": "string"},
        "address": {"title": "Address", "type": "string"}},
        "required": ["name", "age"], "definitions": {"FavoriteColor": {"title": "FavoriteColor", "description": "An enumeration.", "enum": ["BLUE", "YELLOW", "GREEN"], "type": "string"}}}'
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

!!! note
    You must use pydantic.Field instead of dataclasses.field

## Avro schemas with pydantic types

Most of `pydantic` types are supported and from them it is possible to generate `avro fields`. Because `pydantic` types are not native `python types`
the end result will contain extra metadata so the end users will have more context at the moment of using the schema. The extra `metadata` is specified
using the key `pydantic-class`.

### Supported fields

| Avro Type    | Pydantic Type |
|--------------|-------------|
| string       | pydantic.FilePath |
| string       | pydantic.DirectoryPath |
| string       | pydantic.EmailStr |
| string       | pydantic.NameEmail |
| string       | pydantic.AnyUrl |
| string       | pydantic.AnyHttpUrl |
| string       | pydantic.HttpUrl |
| string       | pydantic.FileUrl |
| string       | pydantic.PostgresDsn |
| string       | pydantic.CockroachDsn |
| string       | pydantic.AmqpDsn |
| string       | pydantic.RedisDsn |
| string       | pydantic.MongoDsn |
| string       | pydantic.KafkaDsn |
| string       | pydantic.SecretStr |
| string       | pydantic.IPvAnyAddress |
| string       | pydantic.IPvAnyInterface |
| string       | pydantic.IPvAnyNetwork |
| double       | pydantic.NegativeFloat |
| double       | pydantic.PositiveFloat |
| long         | pydantic.NegativeInt |
| long         | pydantic.PositiveIntstr |
| long         | pydantic.ConstrainedInt (conint) |

| Avro Type    | Logical type | Pydantic Type |
|--------------|--------------|---------------|
| string       | uuid         | pydantic.UUID1 |
| string       | uuid         | pydantic.UUID3 |
| string       | uuid         | pydantic.UUID4 |
| string       | uuid         | pydantic.UUID5 |

```python
from pydantic import v1 as pydantic
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class Infrastructure(AvroBaseModel):
    email: pydantic.EmailStr
    postgres_dsn: pydantic.PostgresDsn
    cockroach_dsn: pydantic.CockroachDsn
    amqp_dsn: pydantic.AmqpDsn
    redis_dsn: pydantic.RedisDsn
    mongo_dsn: pydantic.MongoDsn
    kafka_url: pydantic.KafkaDsn
    total_nodes: pydantic.PositiveInt


Infrastructure.avro_schema()

{
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Infrastructure",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "email", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "EmailStr"}},
        {"name": "postgres_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "PostgresDsn"}},
        {"name": "cockroach_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "CockroachDsn"}},
        {"name": "amqp_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "AmqpDsn"}},
        {"name": "redis_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "RedisDsn"}},
        {"name": "mongo_dsn", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "MongoDsn"}},
        {"name": "kafka_url", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "KafkaDsn"}},
        {"name": "total_nodes", "type": {"type": "long", "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"}}
    ]
}
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

!!! note
    The key `pydantic-class` has been added as `metadata` to have more context when using the schema

## Model generation

If is possible to generate [pydantic models](https://marcosschroh.github.io/dataclasses-avroschema/model_generator/#render-pydantic-models) when `pydantic types` have been used. If a field has the matadata key `pydantic-class`
then the proper pydantic types will be used.

Schema example:

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema import ModelGenerator, BaseClassEnum

model_generator = ModelGenerator(base_class=BaseClassEnum.AVRO_DANTIC_MODEL.value)

schema = {
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Infrastructure",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "email", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "EmailStr"}},
        {"name": "kafka_url", "type": {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "KafkaDsn"}},
        {"name": "total_nodes", "type": {"type": "long", "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"}},
        {"name": "event_id", "type": {"type": "string", "logicalType": "uuid", "pydantic-class": "UUID1"}},
        {"name": "landing_zone_nodes", "type": {"type": "array", "items": {"type": "long", "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"}, "name": "landing_zone_node"}},
        {"name": "total_nodes_in_aws", "type": {"type": "long", "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"}, "default": 10},
        {"name": "optional_kafka_url", "type": ["null", {"type": "string", "pydantic-class": "KafkaDsn"}], "default": None}
    ]
}

result = model_generator.render(schema=schema)

with open("models.py", mode="+w") as f:
    f.write(result)
```

and then render the result:

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel
from pydantic import v1 as pydantic
import typing


class Infrastructure(AvroBaseModel):
    email: pydantic.EmailStr
    kafka_url: pydantic.KafkaDsn
    total_nodes: pydantic.PositiveInt
    event_id: pydantic.UUID1
    landing_zone_nodes: typing.List[pydantic.PositiveInt]
    total_nodes_in_aws: pydantic.PositiveInt = 10
    optional_kafka_url: typing.Optional[pydantic.KafkaDsn] = None
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

!!! note
    In order to render the pydantic types the base class must be `AVRO_BASE_MODEL` or `PYDANTIC_MODEL`

### Mapping `avro fields` to `pydantic types`

|Avro Type  | Metadata                           | Pydantic Type  |
|-----------|------------------------------------|----------------|
| string    | "pydantic-class": "DirectoryPath"  | pydantic.FilePath |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "DirectoryPath"  | pydantic.DirectoryPath |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "EmailStr"       | pydantic.EmailStr |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "NameEmail"      | pydantic.NameEmail |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "AnyUrl"         | pydantic.AnyUrl |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "AnyHttpUrl"     | pydantic.AnyHttpUrl |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "HttpUrl"        | pydantic.HttpUrl |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "FileUrl"        | pydantic.FileUrl |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "PostgresDsn"    | pydantic.PostgresDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "CockroachDsn    | pydantic.CockroachDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "AmqpDsn"        | pydantic.AmqpDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "RedisDsn"       | pydantic.RedisDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "MongoDsn"       | pydantic.MongoDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "KafkaDsn"       | pydantic.KafkaDsn |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "SecretStr"      | pydantic.SecretStr |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "IPvAnyAddress"  | pydantic.IPvAnyAddress |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "IPvAnyInterface"| pydantic.IPvAnyInterface |
| string    | "pydantic-class": "IPvAnyNetwork"  | pydantic.IPvAnyNetwork |
| double    | "pydantic-class": "NegativeFloat"  | pydantic.NegativeFloat |
| double    | "pydantic-class": "PositiveFloat"  | pydantic.PositiveFloat |
| long      | "pydantic-class": "NegativeInt"    | pydantic.NegativeInt |
| long      | "pydantic-class": "PositiveInt"    | pydantic.PositiveInt |
| long      | "pydantic-class": ConstrainedInt"  | pydantic.ConstrainedInt |

|Avro Type  | Logical Type | Metadata | Pydantic Type                      |
|-----------|--------------|----------|------------------------------------|
| string    |  uuid        | "pydantic-class": "UUID1"    | pydantic.UUID1 |
| string    |  uuid        | "pydantic-class": "UUID3"    | pydantic.UUID3 |
| string    |  uuid        | "pydantic-class": "UUID4"    | pydantic.UUID4 |
| string    |  uuid        | "pydantic-class": "UUID5"    | pydantic.UUID5 |

## Pydantic and dataclasses_avroschema batteries

### To dict, to json and serialization

```python title="getting dict and json"
user = UserAdvance(name="bond", age=50)

# to_json from dataclasses-avroschema is the same that json from pydantic
assert user.to_json() == user.json()

# to_dict from dataclasses-avroschema is the same that dict from pydantic
assert user.to_dict() == user.dict()
```

```python title="serialization"
event = user.serialize()
print(event)
# >>> b'\x08bondd\x04\x06dog\x06cat\x00\x02\x06key\x02\x00\x00\x00\x12Argentina\x00'

UserAdvance.deserialize(data=event)
# >>> UserAdvance(name='bond', age=50, pets=['dog', 'cat'], accounts={'key': 1}, has_car=False, favorite_colors=<FavoriteColor.BLUE: 'BLUE'>, country='Argentina', address=None)
```

### Parsing Objects

```python title="parse_obj usage"
import typing

from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class Address(AvroBaseModel):
    "An Address"
    street: str
    street_number: int


class User(AvroBaseModel):
    "User with multiple Address"
    name: str
    age: int
    addresses: typing.List[Address]

data_user = {
    "name": "john",
    "age": 20,
    "addresses": [{
        "street": "test",
        "street_number": 10,
        }],
    }

user = User.parse_obj(data=data_user)
assert type(user.addresses[0]) is Address
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

```python title="parse_obj_as usage"
from typing import List

from pydantic import parse_obj_as

from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class User(AvroBaseModel):
    "User with multiple Address"
    name: str
    age: int


data = [{"name": "bond", "age": 50}, {"name": "bond2", "age": 60}]
users = parse_obj_as(List[User], data)

users[0].avro_schema()
# '{"type": "record", "name": "User", "fields": [{"name": "name", "type": "string"}, {"name": "age", "type": "long"}], "doc": "User with multiple Address"}'
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

### Fake

It is also possible to create `fake` instances with `pydantic` models:

```python
import typing
import datetime
from pydantic.v1 import Field
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class User(AvroBaseModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    birthday: datetime.date
    pets: typing.List[str] = Field(default_factory=lambda: ["dog", "cat"])
    accounts: typing.Dict[str, int] = Field(default_factory=lambda: {"key": 1})
    has_car: bool = False

print(User.fake())
# >>> User(name='qWTLkqcIVmSBxpWMpFyR', age=2608, birthday=datetime.date(1982, 3, 30), pets=['wqoEXcJRYjcnJmnIvtiI'], accounts={'JueNdHdzIhHIDsjlHJLc': 779}, has_car=True)
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

!!! note
    All pydantic supported fields can be used with fake

### Excluding fields

Pydantic Fields can be excluded when `dict`, `json` or `copy` methods are called. This meaans that the exclusion is only for [exporting models](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/usage/exporting_models/) but not excluded in the instance creations, then the `avro serialization` will include all the class attributes.

```python
import typing
from pydantic.v1 import Field
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class User(AvroBaseModel):
    name: str
    age: int
    pets: typing.List[str] = Field(default_factory=lambda: ["dog", "cat"], exclude=True)
    accounts: typing.Dict[str, int] = Field(default_factory=lambda: {"key": 1}, exclude=True)
    has_car: bool = False

user = User(name="bond", age=50, has_car=True)
print(user)
# >>> User(name='bond', age=50, pets=['dog', 'cat'], accounts={'key': 1}, has_car=True)

print(user.dict())
# >>> {'name': 'bond', 'age': 50, 'has_car': True} Excludes pets and accounts !!!

event = user.serialize()
assert user == User.deserialize(event)
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*

## Model Config

With `AvroBaseModel` you can use the same [Model Config](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/usage/model_config/) that `pydantic` provides,
for example:

=== "Not use Enum values"
    ```python
    import enum
    from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic import AvroBaseModel

    class Color(str, enum.Enum):
        BLUE = "BLUE"
        RED = "RED"


    class Bus(AvroBaseModel):
        driver: str
        color: Color

    bus =  Bus(driver="bond", color=Color.RED)
    print(bus.dict())
    # >>> {'driver': 'bond', 'color': <Color.RED: 'RED'>}
    ```

=== "Use Enum values"
    ```python
    import enum
    from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic import AvroBaseModel

    class Color(str, enum.Enum):
        BLUE = "BLUE"
        RED = "RED"


    class Bus(AvroBaseModel):
        driver: str
        color: Color

        class Config:
            use_enum_values = True

    bus =  Bus(driver="bond", color=Color.RED)
    print(bus.dict())
    # >>> {'driver': 'bond', 'color': 'RED'}
    ```

## Adding Custom Field-level Attributes

To add `custom field attributes` the `metadata` attribute must be set in `pydantic.Field`. For more info check [adding-custom-field-level-attributes](https://marcosschroh.github.io/dataclasses-avroschema/fields_specification/#adding-custom-field-level-attributes) section for `dataclasses`.

!!! note
    Make sure that `pydantic.Field` is used and *NOT* `dataclasses.field`

### Custom Data Types as Fields

If needed, you can annotate fields with custom classes that define validators.

### Classes with `__get_validators__`

These classes are [defined by pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/usage/types/#classes-with-__get_validators__) as Python classes that define the `validate` and `__get_validators__` methods.

!!! note
    The conversion mapping of a custom class to its [supported type](./fields_specification.md#avro-field-and-python-types-summary) must be defined in the model's [`json_encoders`](https://docs.pydantic.dev/1.10/usage/exporting_models/#json_encoders) config.

!!! warning
    [Generating models](#Model-generation) from avro schemas that were generated by classes containing Custom Class fields is not supported.

```python
from dataclasses_avroschema.pydantic.v1 import AvroBaseModel


class CustomClass:
    def __init__(self, value: str) -> None:
        self.value = value

    @classmethod
    def __get_validators__(cls):
        yield cls.validate

    @classmethod
    def validate(cls, value):
        if isinstance(value, CustomClass):
            return value
        elif not isinstance(value, str):
            raise ValueError(f"Value must be a string or CustomClass - not {type(value)}")

        return cls(value)

    def __str__(self) -> str:
        return f"{self.value}"


class MyModel(AvroBaseModel):
    my_id: CustomClass

    class Config:
        json_encoders = {CustomClass: str}


print(MyModel.avro_schema_to_python())
"""
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "MyModel",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "my_id",
      "type": "string"
    }
  ]
}
"""
```

*(This script is complete, it should run "as is")*
